docs/content/information/about.md, before:

---
title: "About"
description: "About Authelia and the Authelia Team"
summary: ""
date: 2024-03-14T06:00:14+11:00
draft: false
images: []
toc: true
aliases:
  - /about
  - /about.html
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

## What is Authelia?

Authelia is a project with several open source developers who contribute to the project in their free time. We are not
a company or another type of incorporated entity, and do not have any monetization model. Individuals and Organizations
are free to contribute [financially](../contributing/prologue/financial.md) or with their time to the
[documentation](../contributing/prologue/documentation-contributions.md) or
[code base](../contributing/development/introduction.md).

## Teams

The following section describes the various teams within the Authelia project.

### Core Team

{{% profile-team name="core" %}}

### Maintainers Team

{{% profile-team name="maintainers" %}}

## Sponsors

Authelia is sponsored by the organizations listed below. The organizations below sponsor us completely voluntarily
and do not expect anything additional other than us mentioning them or having a code of conduct, and some do not even
require either of those things.

Please see the [sponsorship section](../contributing/prologue/financial.md#sponsorship) of the financial contributing
page for more information on how to become a sponsor.

### Balto

Our [apt repository](https://apt.authelia.com) is hosted thanks to [Balto](https://www.getbalto.com/?from=Authelia).

{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/balto.svg" alt="Balto" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}

### Buildkite

Our [continuous integration and continuous deployment pipelines](https://buildkite.com/authelia/?from=Authelia) are hosted by
[Buildkite](https://buildkite.com/features?from=Authelia).

### Crowdin

Our [localization platform](https://translate.authelia.com) is hosted by [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/?from=Authelia).

### JetBrains

Our development IDE's are provided by [JetBrains](https://www.jetbrains.com/?from=Authelia).

{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/jetbrains.svg" alt="JetBrains" width="50" height="50" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}
{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/goland.svg" alt="GoLand" width="50" height="50" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}
{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/intellij-idea.svg" alt="IntelliJ IDEA" width="50" height="50" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}
{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/webstorm.svg" alt="WebStorm" width="50" height="50" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}

### Microsoft

Our pipeline agents which we rely on for productivity are hosted on [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/?from=Authelia)
and our [git repositories](https://github.com/authelia) are hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/?from=Authela)
which are both [Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/?from=Authelia) products.

{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/microsoft.svg" alt="Microsoft" width="234" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}
{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/azure.svg" alt="Azure" width="173" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}

### Netlify

Our [website and documentation](https://www.authelia.com) are built and hosted by
[Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/?from=Authelia).

[Open Collective]: https://opencollective.com/authelia-sponsors

## Governance and Affiliations

Authelia is free from any outside governance and is entirely governed as outlined on this page, in addition we do not
have any affiliations which have ever asked this of us.

Our affiliations with external companies will be transparently communicated in this section and the
[sponsors](#sponsors) section.

## Compliance

The following section contains various compliance related information.

### Key Individuals

There is no key individual who if they were incapacitated or unavailable would prevent future operations of the project.

All of the following areas can be reset or are otherwise accessible to all of the members of the [Core Team](#core-team):

- Private Keys
- Access Rights
- Passwords

### Bus Factor

The Authelia team has a bus factor of 3. Meaning that the project would stall if 3 team members were suddenly hit by a
bus.

Commit message:

docs: update apt repo and gpg information (#10252)
* docs: update apt repo and gpg information

Signed-off-by: James Elliott <james-d-elliott@users.noreply.github.com>

* docs: add verification and make adjustments

* Apply suggestion from @nightah

Co-authored-by: Amir Zarrinkafsh <nightah@me.com>
Signed-off-by: James Elliott <james-d-elliott@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestion from @nightah

Co-authored-by: Amir Zarrinkafsh <nightah@me.com>
Signed-off-by: James Elliott <james-d-elliott@users.noreply.github.com>

* docs: add additional hardening options

---------

Signed-off-by: James Elliott <james-d-elliott@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Amir Zarrinkafsh <nightah@me.com>
Co-authored-by: Authelia[bot] <59121742+autheliabot@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/content/information/about.md, after:

---
title: "About"
description: "About Authelia and the Authelia Team"
summary: ""
date: 2024-03-14T06:00:14+11:00
draft: false
images: []
toc: true
aliases:
  - /about
  - /about.html
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

## What is Authelia?

Authelia is a project with several open source developers who contribute to the project in their free time. We are not
a company or another type of incorporated entity, and do not have any monetization model. Individuals and Organizations
are free to contribute [financially](../contributing/prologue/financial.md) or with their time to the
[documentation](../contributing/prologue/documentation-contributions.md) or
[code base](../contributing/development/introduction.md).

## Teams

The following section describes the various teams within the Authelia project.

### Core Team

{{% profile-team name="core" %}}

### Maintainers Team

{{% profile-team name="maintainers" %}}

## Sponsors

Authelia is sponsored by the organizations listed below. The organizations below sponsor us completely voluntarily
and do not expect anything additional other than us mentioning them or having a code of conduct, and some do not even
require either of those things.

Please see the [sponsorship section](../contributing/prologue/financial.md#sponsorship) of the financial contributing
page for more information on how to become a sponsor.

### Balto

Our [apt repository](https://apt.authelia.com) was previously hosted thanks to Balto. We now host it ourselves on
[Netlify](#netlify) due to the unfortunate fact that Balto has shut down. We graciously want to thank Balto for their
support of and generosity towards the Authelia project.

{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/balto.svg" alt="Balto" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}

### Buildkite

Our [continuous integration and continuous deployment pipelines](https://buildkite.com/authelia/?from=Authelia) are hosted by
[Buildkite](https://buildkite.com/features?from=Authelia).

### Crowdin

Our [localization platform](https://translate.authelia.com) is hosted by [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/?from=Authelia).

### JetBrains

Our development IDE's are provided by [JetBrains](https://www.jetbrains.com/?from=Authelia).

{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/jetbrains.svg" alt="JetBrains" width="50" height="50" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}
{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/goland.svg" alt="GoLand" width="50" height="50" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}
{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/intellij-idea.svg" alt="IntelliJ IDEA" width="50" height="50" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}
{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/webstorm.svg" alt="WebStorm" width="50" height="50" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}

### Microsoft

Our pipeline agents which we rely on for productivity are hosted on [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/?from=Authelia)
and our [git repositories](https://github.com/authelia) are hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/?from=Authela)
which are both [Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/?from=Authelia) products.

{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/microsoft.svg" alt="Microsoft" width="234" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}
{{< inline-svg src="svgs/logos/azure.svg" alt="Azure" width="173" style="padding-right: 10px" class="svg-inline-custom" ignoreStaticImages="false" >}}

### Netlify

Our [website and documentation](https://www.authelia.com) are built and hosted by
[Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/?from=Authelia).

[Open Collective]: https://opencollective.com/authelia-sponsors

## Governance and Affiliations

Authelia is free from any outside governance and is entirely governed as outlined on this page, in addition we do not
have any affiliations which have ever asked this of us.

Our affiliations with external companies will be transparently communicated in this section and the
[sponsors](#sponsors) section.

## Compliance

The following section contains various compliance related information.

### Key Individuals

There is no key individual who if they were incapacitated or unavailable would prevent future operations of the project.

All of the following areas can be reset or are otherwise accessible to all of the members of the [Core Team](#core-team):

- Private Keys
- Access Rights
- Passwords

### Bus Factor

The Authelia team has a bus factor of 3. Meaning that the project would stall if 3 team members were suddenly hit by a
bus.
