---
title: "ADR2: Protection of Private User Information"
description: "An official Architecture Decision Record"
date: 2024-11-12T16:04:32-08:00
weight: 1002
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

Date: November 12, 2024

## Status

Proposed

## Submitters

- [Brynn Crowley](https://github.com/crowley723), [Authelia](https://github.com/authelia)

## Change Log

|    Date    |                           PR                            | Status |                           Notes                           |
|:----------:|:-------------------------------------------------------:|:------:|:---------------------------------------------------------:|
| 2024-11-12  | [#8247](https://github.com/authelia/authelia/pull/8247) |  Open  |                    Initial Publication                    |

## Context

Authelia handles users' personally identifiable information (PII), currently limited to email addresses but with potential expansion to include additional sensitive data. While our standard authentication mechanisms (1FA/2FA) provide basic security, there remains a non-zero risk of session hijacking that could lead to unauthorized PII access even through secured endpoints.
The need to protect PII goes beyond basic authentication, as even authenticated sessions can be compromised. This creates a requirement for an additional layer of security specifically for accessing sensitive user data.

### Rational

While this is not the full extent of the reasons, the most impactful ones are as follows:

1. Even with the secure authentication methods currently in place, the possibility of session hijacking remains through various attack vectors, known and unknown. By separating the access of PII to endpoints requiring an additional level of identity verification, we can limit the potential damage from such attacks.
2. API endpoints should only return the minimum level of information required for their function. Since the majority of operations won't require sensitive PII, this information should not be needlessly made available.
3. As Authelia evolves to potentially handle more types of PII (including phone numbers, addresses, and financial information), having guidelines for handling access to sensitive information will prevent the need for drastic future architectural changes.


## Proposed Design

The proposed solution is to use a separate API endpoint that requires an elevated session to access. This would limit the time period that PII is vulnerable to the lifetime of the session elevation.


## Decision

To be determined.

## Consequences

As a result of the proposed design, user's will be required to generate an elevated session prior to the interaction with any features that require PII.

## Related ADRs

_N/A_
